LoW revision

Summary: Dealing with the orc invasion of the Great Continent after the fallout of TRoW (20 YW - 26 YW)

Scenarios: target around 12-14

Factions:

Landar - Wesmere born and raised marksman who joined the Wesmere military when the humans arrived on the Great Continent in 0 YW.
Kalenz - Lintanir born son of nobleman who came to Wesmere around 5 YW in the wake of the drake attack. 
Cleodil - Lintanir born shaman who came to Wesmere for training. Mostly trained in the druidic arts but has some skill in elven sorcery too.
Galtrid - an elvish captain that Landar and Kalenz sometimes encounter who is pretty good friends with Landar
Ka'lian - the council from TRoW which has become only more xenophobic since said campaign. Has a very conservative approach to basically everything.

The orcish clans are rivals with one another. Each one alone might be able to threaten the humans, but does not pose much threat to Wesmere. If they combined forces, they might be similar in brute strength, though it may or may not be enough to offset the elves' prowess within their own territories. Also, the special clans each probably will get some unique units to them to mix up the gameplay.
Clan Embershard - an orcish clan specializing in the use of fire and tactics involving traps and mobility. Makes heavy use of and is led by a goblin. As such, is despised by other orcish clans. Fire damage on troops is boosted. Clan color is orange.
Clan Blackcrest - an orcish clan specializing in magic and allied with saurians. Has an unusual number of shamans. Though not the largest clan in numbers, possibly the most powerful due to their alliances and magical prowess. Military might comes from their ability to bloodlust their troops. Clan color is black.
Clan Moontusk - the largest clan in numbers, which eventually became the Whitefangs later. They do not have any real specialty, just a coalition of brutes with lots of manpower. They are the first clan to ally with trolls. Clan color is light blue.
Clan Bloodrock - another large clan specializing in berserkers. Clan color is dark red.
Clan Withervein - a smaller clan specializing in poison. They do not commonly fight against elves or humans, preferring to act as a mediator between the other orc clans. Their poison also can slow enemies. Clan color is yellow-green.

The saurian clans are much smaller than the orcish clans and less powerful in military strength. They act more as supporting forces.
Clan Earth-becomes-clay - a saurian clan focused on swamp magic. Capable of turning regular earth into swamps as well as altering it to hamper non saurians. Allied with clan Blackcrest. Clan color is brown.
Clan Iron-forges-hides - a saurian clan of warriors with increased resistance to physical attacks. Has the ironscale trait. Allied with clan Blackcrest. Clan color is also grey.

Plot: 

Orcs invade the Great Continent after TRoW, escaping from the Green Isles and Old Continent. Most attacks fall on the elves since Haldric tricked them into thinking the elves have the Ruby. However, Wesmere is extremely powerful and can repel most of the disorganized attacks. 

The main plot of LoW starts when a stronger band of chieftains decide to ally with one another and some powerful established saurian clans to assault Wesmere. They aren't able to conquer Wesmere, but do significant damage to some elven settlements. Landar, an elven radical, wants to bring the fight to the orcs and saurians and petitions the Ka'lian repeatedly to mobilize Wesmere's military to go on the offensive. The Ka'lian is very conservative and denies the request, ordering him and Kalenz to remain as defensive officers only. They are (potentially correctly) assuming that they can hold off the orcs forever. (Around 30 months)

Disgruntled, Landar seeks help from other sources and convinces Kalenz to defect with him to bring the offensive to the orcs. They are able to wipe out the saurians, but a direct frontal assault on the orcs proves to be impossible. With Crelanu's and Cleodil's help, they are able to stage a distraction and assassinate the orc chieftains instead. (Around 48-54 months)

By this time (TODO: Landar needs good portrayal or good motive, maybe something from Crelanu or Cleo's magic made him mentally unstable as in the original), Landar is completely radicalized and outraged against the Ka'lian. He takes his allies back toward Wesmere, where he tries to fight his way toward the Ka'lian. The elven military turns on him and Kalenz is given an ultimatum to hunt his friend down or be executed along with Cleodil for his actions. He chooses to fight Landar and wins, but also having come to hate the Ka'lian, decides to leave his home in Wesmere. [4-5 scenarios]

Behind the scenes plot points to track:

The Ka'lian is a bit detached from reality on their high horse, but not stupid. They are not wrong in saying that Wesmere can withstand the orcs and we should see this in the dialogue and fights around Wesmere. There are of course casualties, though. Relatedly, the Landar and Kalenz slowly begin to lose faith in the Ka'lian to the point of being willing to openly fight against them in S12. 

Landar becomes more radical and even is not against fighting against his previous allies (the humans) or other elves. We have to show Landar as only being very loyal to those he considers his friends (e.g. Kalenz and Lyrlei) while trying to fight those who so much as antagonize him a little bit. This sets him up to rebel against the Ka'lian and also for the events in SoF. Since Lyrlei isn't among those humans, he has no qualms about attacking. 

Meanwhile Cleodil should be consistently a pacifist and does not enjoy fighting. Her dialogue should reflect this.

The orc clans are not united. They would definitely be a bigger threat if they were, but each chieftain (after Jevyan lost hold on them) squabbles for power. Another thing to place are small hints of Clan Withervein acting in the background. The infighting in S4 could be caused by them, for example.

Sylphs make an appearance in S9x, detailing how they weave the threads of fate or whatever to manipulate events. This is shown in previous scenarios where the heroes make critical decisions. We'll turn the screen bluish/hazy and they will purposely sound more hesitant, as if they are being pushed toward a decision.


Scenarios: 

S1 - Oathsworn Kin

Kalenz goes to reinforce Landar at Wesmere's border, where orcs have begun to attack the elves (Clan Moontusk). We learn about how Kalenz was sent from Lintanir earlier during the drake attacks and became fast friends with Landar. There should be a reference to their past, where Landar saved Kalenz's life (maybe from a drake?), hence the Oathsworn. We also get some of their views about the humans and the Ka'lian. This should be a fairly easy and quick scenario, Wesmere is much more powerful than the assaulting orcs. 

Recruits: Archer, Fighter
Loyal Shamans are gratned since they accompanied Kalenz here
Shamans are capped at Enchantress like in AtS

S2 - Ashwood Copse

After a few weeks of patrol, Landar and Kalenz are meant to return to the Ka'lian keep for orders. However, they come across a village on the border that is suspiciously empty, though there are suspiciously many ashes scattered around. Landar makes the decision to disobey the Ka'lian's orders and investigate, since he chooses to prioritize the lives of his kin. Upon investigating the village, they unwittingly trip some explosives, setting the entire village ablaze. Orcish archers and goblins emerge from the surrounding forest. They belong to the Embershard clan (which predictably specializes in the use of fire). They fight off the orcs and question them. It turns out that the elves were originally captured by the Embershard clan, but the rival Blackcrest clan then ambushed them and took the elves as their own hostages to be a bargaining chip. Landar again makes a decision to pursue the orcs despite receiving another order to return to the Ka'lian.

Recruits: Archer, Fighter, Civilian
Civilian discovered once Landar enters the village

S3 - Witchmire

Landar and Kalenz pursue the Blackcrest clan to a nearby location outside of Wesmere, where they find the elven hostages. They are surprised to find a swamp and after some spying, discover that the Blackcrest clan is allied with saurians (Clan Earth-becomes-clay). They discover that the shamans have made some blood sacrifices from the elves as well to boost their magical powers. Landar and Kalenz free the hostages and either wipe out the orcs or simply retreat. Either way, more orcs arrive at the end of the scenario, prompting them to return to Wesmere and go back to the Ka'lian. 
Recruits: Archer, Fighter, Scout, Civilian

S3x - The Intractable

Upon returning, Landar is reprimanded personally by one of the Ka'lian (TODO: who?). He tries to argue his case by saying how many lives he saved. The Ka'lian acknowledges his heroism, but points out that it was a foolish tactic. They argue about military strategy, with the Ka'lian thinking that ill-defended villages at the outskirts should be deserted and military forces retreated to the more heavily wooded areas for easier defense. They think that the elves are "more or less invincible within their own domain" and the orcs, due to in-fighting and finding the elves too difficult to defeat, will go after the humans "in due course". 

Landar asks what will happen if the clans band together to fight Wesmere. He suggests they should take the fight to the orcs and wipe them out while they are split and weak. The Ka'lian disagrees and orders him to stay to his post. They also warn Kalenz to be wary of Landar. They say that while he is their guest from Lintanir, they cannot expend "exorbitant resources" to protect him from the foolish decisions of his friend. Before the Ka'lian leaves, they also introduce Cleodil and mention that she will be joining them back to their post. They leave.

Obviously Cleodil is planted as a third party to observe them and report back to the Ka'lian. Druids and enchantresses are usually not sent to battle, as both of them realize. 

Kalenz - So what will you do?

Landar - I will return to my post, of course.

Additional Loyal Shamans granted accompanying Cleodil.

S4 - Bloodfields

Landar returns to his post, accompanied by Kalenz. For a few months, they fend off small orc attacks. After some time, they receive a request for aid from another border village that did not evacuate. However, this is out of the jurisdiction of the Ka'lian's orders. He decides to go help anyway. Upon arrival, he finds the village assailed on two sides by the rivaling Embershard and Bloodrock clans. Landar and Kalenz defend the village from the orcs, preserving as much of it as possible (like UtBS S3, but the objective is to defeat both orcish leaders). The scenario is rather difficult because although the orcs will fight each other, you remain in between them and thus have to let them swarm over a significant portion of the village if you want them to kill each other. Otherwise, you may sustain quite a few losses just defending. Meant to be the first decently hard scenario.

After defending the village, Landar and Kalenz agree that the Ka'lian is probably wrong and they should bring the fight to the orcs before Wesmere is threatened further. They realize that the paltry number of troops Landar was granted is not enough to fight the orcs, so they need to seek allies. They ask Cleodil if she will report their defection to the Ka'lian. To their surprise, she agrees with them, that the Ka'lian is too conservative and they should take matters into their own hands. She points out that the Ka'lian is far removed from practicality and there's many things they don't know. She suggests they take a detour to the Grey Woods, to which Landar and Kalenz agree.

Recruits: Archer, Fighter, Scout, Civilian

S5 - Watchers in the Woods

Cleodil leads Kalenz and Landar directly across the Great River to the Grey Woods. They find a band of mixed Wesnothian troops led by Lyrlei, technically a Wesnothian Princess by heritage though she's very humble and tends not to use the term. Cleodil explains that Lyrlei's troops were sent to spy on Wesmere and she checks in with them periodically to deliver the information to Weldyn. When Lyrlei asks how Cleodil knows this, Cleodil reveals that elves have mastery over nature and even the trees themselves may be their eyes and ears. Lyrlei asks if the Ka'lian knows about this and Cleodil assures her that they don't. Cleo is a smart gal. (Can we get some forest spirits in here as well? Enable recruiting forest spirits, Woses are not recruitable but you get some loyal ones)

To the point, Landar makes the case for them joining forces and fighting the orcs and saurians. Lyrlei is like her mother, fiery and very sharp. She points out that the number of troops under her command is more than the paltry amount that Landar defected with and the orcs aren't coming after the humans (Landar: yet). She agrees with them that the orcs are indeed a threat, but it's not that easy to trust them. Kalenz - Yet you do not seem unwilling to. Lyrlei - Maybe, maybe not. How about a contest? Show me exactly how incredible those famous elven skills are. We'll play a game. It's called 'Seize the Banner'. Landar - That is one of your children's games, is it not? Lyrlei - Yes. All you have to do is take the opposing team's banner and bring it back to your base. It shouldn't take long and we won't fight to kill or anything like that.

Kalenz - This is a test of our abilities, obviously.

Landar - And obviously it is common practice to understand the capabilities of potential allies. This is a mutually beneficial arrangement. (To Lyrlei) We'll play your game. 

Lyrlei - Excellent.

Objective is to win the game. If you lose, Landar comments that you should've been able to beat them especially given the terrain advantage. Upon winning, Lyrlei commends you on winning despite the man disadvantage and proposes a strategy. They will first strike at the saurian clans at the Swamp of Dread to weaken the orcish supporting forces. They are less powerful in direct military strength and are a more realistic target to overcome.

Lyrlei - What do you think?

Landar - It is a fine strategy, but she has another motive for doing this.

Kalenz - What does it matter? If it benefits us, I see no reason to scorn her strategy.

Landar - A bold move, but I am a bold warrior. We will take the fight to the saurians as you suggest. 

Recruits: Archer, Fighter, Scout, Civilian, Forest Spirit
Loyal Woses granted, humans join after

S5x - Touch of the Faerie

Cleodil has a "dream" where she is exploring a pseudo faerie realm. Mysterious beings talk to her, telling her that this course of action will lead to great tribulation and potentially tremendous personal sacrifice. Cleodil retorts that Landar is not the only one with resolve. The spirits gather around her, ending the cutscene. You gain an extra recruit here.

S6 - Clay Souls

En route to the Swamp of Dread, the new alliance is interrupted outside of Knalga. 

Kalenz - What is this? Neither the records of the Wes-Elen nor the Lins-Elen ever indicate a swamp here directly outside of the Kingdom of the Cavediggers. Nay I recall some of our kin choosing to reside here. 

Landar - See with your own eyes and smell with your own nose the bog that lies before you, my friend.

This is the work of Clan Earth-becomes-clay once again. They slaughtered (with the help of the orcs) the local elves. The saurians, somewhat versed in necromancy, were able to fashion their bodies into ghouls. There are also a plethora of mudcrawlers around. Enraged, the elves (and humans) wipe out the saurians here (a somewhat significant portion of the clan). The swamps begin to recede.

One of Lyrlei's troops - Once these damned swamps are gone, this would make a great place for a settlement.

Lyrlei - Good idea, soldier. We'll start building us a fortified encampment here to gather our forces. Once we've secured this area, we'll go hunting for some lizards!

Landar - Yes, we certainly will.

Recruits: Archer, Fighter, Scout, Civilian, Forest Spirit, Ethereal Spirit
Humans: Spearman, Archer, Thug, Footpad, Poacher, Thief

S7 - Dread Slayer

A couple weeks pass and the group prepares for the trek to the Swamp of Dread. They attack the saurians head on. They fight a straightforward, but tough battle against Clans Earth-becomes-clay and Iron-forges-hides. The former is wiped out. When the leader of Earth-becomes-clay dies or you approach the main leader of Iron-forges-hides, the Iron-forges-hides leader flees north to get aid from the Blackcrests. However, Kalenz is cursed by the leader of Clan Earth-becomes-clay with his dying breath. He feels unusually cold and slightly "hazy" but otherwise fine.

Cleodil - Kalenz? Kalenz, you look so pale. I am worried about you. I will need time to unbind the swamp dweller's curse, if it is even possible.

Kalenz - But if we flee, the saurians will regroup and we will have lost our opportunity.

Landar - Are you still able to fight, my friend?

Kalenz - I am.

Cleodil - But-

Kalenz - Cleodil, I am fine. I will not stand by idly to nurse a minor illness while my kin continue to be slaughtered in this dreadful conflict.

Landar - Then we will pursue them. These monster shall be slain down to the very last one.

S8 - Savagery of Vengeance

The group pursues the saurians north. The objective is to destroy the remnants of Clan Iron-forges-hides while they try to flee to Clan Blackcrest. You need to catch them (very difficult since they are skirmishers) before they get away. Clan Blackcrest pushes back and forces you to retreat. Kalenz loses 1 HP every turn in this scenario. Meant to be a very quick scenario.

S8x - The Fading

Cleodil finds Kalenz at night. He tries to hide his arms but she pulls up his sleeves and finds spots "as white as snow" splotched on his skin. She says they need to return immediately to the encampment so she can try to treat him.

S9 - The Swarm

The alliance retreats to the entrance of Knalga, where you defend against Clan Moontusk already attacking and Clan Blackcrest which arrives after a few turns. You have to fend them both off (either survive to end of turns or kill both). Should be a very hard scenario. Kalenz loses even more HP every turn. At the end of the scenario, either when the orcs retreat or you defeat them, they discuss strategy realize they cannot wipe out the orcs head on and will have to use other tactics to defeat them. 

Lyrlei knows of a mage, Crelanu, who lives in Thoria who might be helpful to them. (Same as canon info) He was banished from Wesnoth when Haldric began to go mad, even though he was only trying to protect Haldric from the Ruby. With the orcs involved and them seeking the Ruby, she thinks he may be willing to help. Kalenz is unresponsive when they ask him for his opinion, however.

S9x - Between the Realms

Cleodil starts to treat Kalenz but midway through the scene she freezes in place. The entire scene changes into the psuedo faerie realm and the Sylphs make contact with Kalenz directly. They talk about how they have been manipulating fate. He asks if they can determine the future. They respond that "bending of the strings" is possible, but action must still be carrier out by "heroes such as yourself". Finally, they note that his wound is not only a physical ailment, and as such, Cleodil is unable to cure him entirely. They can help, but he may "find that the resulting connection to the faerie has its drawbacks in the long term". He says that he has no choice at this point in time. This explains Kalenz's long lifespan later in time.

S10 - Cliffs of Thoria

In the pre scenario text, Landar narrates how he felt guilty at persuading his friend to fight when he was injured. The curse was lifted somehow, though Cleodil denies that it was her doing, but Kalenz would only give vague hints as to who helped him. The physical recovery took more time, however, and so they spend a few weeks recovering while Lyrlei helped defend against orcs. When they felt strong enough, they returned to their quest to find Crelanu.

Similar to the current canon scenario, they pass through the Cliffs of Thoria where they discover Clan Moontusk has allied with trolls. 

S10x - Agents of the Shadows

They talk to Crelanu, who has been observing the orcs for some time. He tells the about the presence of a fifth major Clan (Withervein), which operates in the shadows by navigating the delicate rivalry between the other larger clans. In fact, an orc from said clan comes to visit them to give this information freely. The orc says that Wesmere is more or less unassailable for the orcs and so giving up on that war, it is beneficial for his clan to weaken the others in order to seize more power. Crelanu suggests they do the same, sow the seeds of discord among the orcs by assassinating their leaders and framing the other orcs for the job. 

S11 - Entrapment

They locate a parley that the orc informed them of near Wesmere, where the Embershard and Bloodrock Clans are trying to ally. They sneak into the encampment, slay both leaders, and frame Clan Blackcrest for the murders. Another quick scenario, this is more RPG-like.

S12 - Kinslaying

The humans will not help in this scenario due to the proximity to Wesmere. Lyrlei says goodbye temporarily.

Objectives are to kill the orcs. This might seem easy since you can just let them slaughter each other, but after a few turns, the Ka'lian arrives. One of the Ka'lian members (TODO: who?) comes to take the three into custody. Dionli is also there. She convinces Cleodil to return to the Ka'lian, saying that war does not become their kind to which Cleodil agrees. Landar suggests to Kalenz that they fight for their freedom. Kalenz tentatively agrees, but shows a great deal of uncertainty. Objectives change to kill orcs and defeat the Ka'lian member.

The Ka'lian member actually dies upon defeat. Landar is shocked, saying this wasn't supposed to happen. No matter all that has transpired, he truly did have Wesmere's best interest at heart. Now there's nothing for him to do but flee. He asks Kalenz if he will follow.

Kalenz - What of Cleodil? We cannot just leave her.

Landar - I think Dionli will protect her. At least long enough for me to return and help her escape with us. That is the most I can hope for.

Kalenz - Are you sure? I have always placed my trust in you. But slaughtering a member of the Ka'lian... this feels like a terrible nightmare.

Landar - I know. I feel the same...

Kalenz - What will you do?

Landar - Flee. What else can I do? I would gladly give my life for Wesmere, but not while it is still being threatened by these beasts. You should come with me.

Kalenz - We have been through everything together. Yet in this, I am not sure I can follow you.

Landar - You know I have never failed you.

Kalenz - You have not. (aside) And yet the way you are now disturbs me.

(pause)

Landar - I see. You will do what you think is best. And I shall too. Kalenz, should you need me, you know where to go.

Kalenz - If they do not execute me first.

S12x - The Ordinance

Kalenz is seized before even facing the Ka'lian and imprisoned for a few months. They do not grant him any visitors nor do they give him any information. At some point, he is taken back up to their keep to communicate with them.

The Ka'lian says they would have executed Kalenz but the circumstances are special. First, they note that Landar and Kalenz's service was indeed valuable to the elves. They saw the effectiveness of their alliance with the humans, and thus reached out to Jessene and Lyrlei to renew the human-elven alliance, which they took the liberty of doing during Kalenz's prison term. Kalenz - (after we did all the work..!). They invited Lyrlei here to to the council in recognition of the new treaty. As part of said treaty and as an act of goodwill, Kalenz has been pardoned which is why he is being released. Lyrlei says she fought extra hard to save Kalenz or he would have indeed been executed earlier. 

Kalenz - I... thank you. I owe you my life, my lady [TODO: use a proper honorific]. 

Lyrlei - Hey, that's what friends are for. It's the least I could do after all our adventures together.

Kalenz - I am grateful. But what of Landar?

Lyrlei says she wasn't able to get him pardoned, but she is not sure if he should be the way he is now. The Ka'lian adds that he was responsible for some attacks on the humans, including Lyrlei's brother, the new king. In due course, they will spend resources on squashing his insubordinance, but not before the orcs are exterminated. They also communicate to Lyrlei that he is considered a rebel and that the humans are free to use full force against him and his new allies (refer to SoF here). Lyrlei says she will pass along the message. The council has "no more articles" at this point and is adjourned. Lyrlei and all guards exit. The Ka'lian tells Kalenz to remain so only them 4 are there.

Dionli - Kalenz, Cleodil has received her sentence from the faerie kin.

Kalenz - This is our custom, is it not?

Dionli - It is. She is to be executed-

Kalenz - What?! With all due respect, Lady Dionli, that is a most irresponsible, unwise-

Dionli - Kalenz-

Kalenz - -and what of the treaty? I am sure Lady Lyrlei will voice her own protest once I bring this to her attention-

Ka'lian 1 - Calm yourself! Lady Dionli was not finished.

Ka'lian 2 - The faerie kin have always handled their own, without influence from our own warriors, much less from humans. This is our <i>custom</i>, as you yourself stated.

(pause)

Dionli - Cleodil's elopement has been the cause of much death and destruction to our kind, as she was not only absent from the critical defense of our home, but instrumental in assisting the traitor Landar in his rebellion. This egregious error, unless corrected, can be paid for by no less than her blood. This is our decision.

Kalenz - That is preposterous- wait. Unless corrected?

Dionli - That is what I said. You are free to go, as per our agreement with the humans. However, we chose to inform you of this decision, since it pertains to your friend.

Kalenz - You want me to kill Landar. You want me to do this repugnant task... as your grunt soldier!

Ka'lian 2 - Capturing him is fine as well, should you be capable of it.

Kalenz - That is not my point. You are using Cleodil as a bargaining chip.

Ka'lian 1 - How crude. We are giving you the opportunity to help her. You should be grateful.

Dionli - Kalenz, you are the one who knows Landar best. You are the most capable of putting an end to this senseless bloodshed. Would you have more of our kin be slaughtered meaninglessly for the sake of your past friendship with this renegade? We are giving you a choice.

Kalenz - (mutters) If I refuse, they will send Cleodil alone on a thankless mission to find Landar, which I very much she is capable of. There is not much of a choice, is there...

Kalenz - Very well. If this is your game, I will play it one last time. But this will be the last time.

Dionli - Good fortune on this undertaking, Kalenz. I hope you will not fail.

S13 - Insurgency

Cleodil joins back with Kalenz in the story text. He notes she looks miserable and says very little to him, trying to avoid his gaze as much as possible. He says she seems ashamed, at least to his eye. Obviously he curses the Ka'lian for this. When he ponders about whether they could just flee together and disobey the Ka'lian yet again, Cleodil says "they are watching". This refers to the Sylphs. So he says there's no choice.

(TODO: can we somehow combine this with the last scenario or are they better separate? It may not be necessary to give Glildur his own scenario.) Kalenz leads them north toward a place where he says Landar should be. En route, they come across Glildur attacking a band of dwarves. Kalenz recognizes him and tells him to stop, but Glildur says he does not take orders from the Ka'lian any more. Unfortunately the dwarves do not recognize Kalenz and co as allies either, so you have a 3 way battle and you are forced to wipe the dwarves out. Strategically we should be fighting mostly dwarves here, not elves. A couple turns in, Lyrlei joins in, asking if they need a hand, so you get your human recalls back.

Once you defeat both enemies, Glildur escapes and the dwarves are dead. They let Glildur go since he is not really their target, their priority is Landar. Kalenz also asks Lyrlei how she came here. She says she snooped around and listened in on their conversation earlier. They agree that the Ka'lian is doing a terrible thing in this, but that Landar has to be stopped as well, especially seeing firsthand his actions against the dwarves. Cleodil is pretty quiet and still miserable throughout all this.

S14 - Covenant Kin

(TODO: see above, combine with S14?) Kalenz leads them toward their old hideout, slightly north of Wesmere, where they find Landar. He says they are there for him and asks him to stand down. Landar doesn't respond, to which Kalenz gives a monologue about his feelings, their times together, etc. Landar only says it's time to finish this. You defeat him. Landar lays down his weapons and invites them inside the hideout. They chat briefly about their past together, then Landar draws a dagger and stabs himself. Kalenz rushes toward him.

Kalenz - Landar! Why?

Landar - It is the only way, old friend. Cleo's life is at stake. And I would never willingly go back to the Ka'lian the way it is now.

(Cleodil approaches)

Kalenz - Cleo, can you heal-

Cleodil - Already trying.

Landar - (grabs Cleodil's hand) Listen. I have sinned enough for all of us. It is time for me to rest...

Cleodil tries to heal him again but it doesn't do anything. She stops after a moment.

Cleodil - This is... so wrong...

Landar - <i>Listen</i>. Lyrlei, I cannot ask anything of you. But, Cleo, Kalenz. Promise me this. Whatever you do, do not go back to the Ka'lian... we have suffered enough for their sake.

Kalenz - We will not. Not after all this.

Landar - (<i>gasps</i>) And... it is a selfish wish, but... please... even should it be against the Ka'lian itself... protect Wesmere for me...

Kalenz - You have my word.

(pause)

Cleodil - Landar?

Lyrlei - murmurs a prayer for the deceased

Kalenz - ... Be at peace, my friend (TODO: we really should have an elven word for this?).

S14x - Epilogue

The Ka'lian commends Kalenz and Cleodil for their efforts, but Kalenz cuts them off first saying that their deal is done and he will have nothing more to do with them. They respond that indeed the bargain is fulfilled and he and Cleodil are free to go. 

Extras:

LoW also sets up SoF as Kalenz party warns King Haldric II about the ruby's unshielded power so some part needs to be mentioned to have that.
kalenz could have just done that himself ig
or cleo
more likely cleo
actually I prefer it if kalenz and cleo do it themselves
since it establishes them as human allies
for httt

One line in HttT S5 also needs to be revised.
        [message]
            speaker=Delfador
            message= _ "I have been meeting with the Ka’lian, the Great Council of the Elves. This is Kalenz, a great lord of the Northern Elves who came to the Council to offer us the support of his people."
        [/message]
Since he came to detest the Kalian..why would he even be there?

Kalenz will hint at returning to Lintanir at the end of LoW

I wonder if we get to encounter some other characters from SoF due to the timeframe overlap.

Also, for your revision draft, you can place in El Isomithir as the member who harshly reprimands Landar
And Logalmier as the Kalian member who is the one in S12
